# Analyzing Factors Associated with Area Burned by Wildfires in the United States
Contributors: Kevin Mao, Arnav Meduri, Ben Trokenheim, Ricardo Urena

In this project, we analyze wildfire data from 1992–2015 to address two research questions: (1) What factors known before a wildfire has occurred are most strongly associated with the likelihood that a fire burns a greater-than-typical area? (2) What overall factors (including those available after a wildfire) help explain variability in the continuous size of the burned area? To answer these questions, we fit a multiple linear regression and logistic regression model. Through linear regression, we found that region (i.e., area of the country), cause category (i.e., ignition source such as arson or lightning), vegetation type (i.e., dominant land cover), remoteness (i.e., distance from nearest urban center), wind speed, temperature, containment time (i.e., days from discovery to containment), and the interaction between shrubland vegetation and precipitation were significantly associated with log-transformed burned area, while relative humidity, precipitation alone, and other vegetation–precipitation interactions were not. The model explained approximately 5% of the variability in fire size. Through logistic regression, we found that fires in shrubland and grassland areas, lower remoteness, higher wind speed, and higher temperature were associated with greater odds of exceeding the median burned area, while fires in the Northeast were less likely to do so. The logistic regression model had an AUC of 0.569. Although performance for both models was modest, through both models we were able to identify environmental, geographic, and fire-related factors associated with variation in fire size and the likelihood of exceeding the median burned area.





